---
layout: post
title: Data Transfer - How Much Is Too Much?
---

So here's the dillema:

Say you have a public facing service that you can't restrict based on source IP, geo-location, or time. It could be your client's Citrix portal, web VPN, OWA, or some other sort of portal that needs to be exposed to the world, so that your users can log in from anywhere, at any time.

Say you have enforced MFA so that the login page won't let the threat actors waltz right in using a password they've found on the dark web, or stolen using a phishing attack, but you have this nagging feeling in the back of your head that some junior admin somewhere might have disabled it for a few too-important-to-unlock-their-phone-while-drinking-champagne-on-private-jet users, or your users have gotten so used to tapping 'yes' to every prompt on their phone, they could allow Monsieur Arsène Lupin walk right in, without pausig for a moment to ask themselves, "now hold on, wait a minute, it's 1am, it's labor day, and my account is logging into what now?" 

Say you're good enough to have accounted for that, and integrated your firewall or router with a SIEM solution, ingesting logs for every single TCP session in any direction, enriching them with GeoIP and known-bad IP blacklist matching, so you can get an alert every time bad guys even look at your login portal the wrong way. But now you're getting hundreds of alerts per day generated by page loads, port scans, and other sorts of recon activity.

In an ideal world, your super awesome, deep-packet-inspecting, ssl-decrypting, malware-scanning, application-detecting, omniscient, omnipotent, almighty NextGen firewall would whack the bad guy right in the face and shun them for a whole 30 minutes, but let's face it, things don't just quite work the way your firewall sales person explained it to your boss over medium-rare steak and single malt scotch when they sold them the product now, do they? 

So all you're left with is a gazillion lousy netflow or firewall alerts saying that Sauron, which we all know is evil, from Mordor, which is notorious for evil activity, has made a successfull inbound connection to your cute web VPN login page with company logo gracefully rising through the horizon over a calm ocean background, and transferred a whopping 112KB of data over port 443. Okay. Well. 112KB isn't a big deal, right? Or is it? 

